# Gun Fatalities in the United States
Data Bootcamp - Undergraduate - Fall 2018 Final Project (Anvitha Jagannathan &amp; Javier Beltranena)
This project was completed by Anvitha Jagannathan and Javier Beltranena in partial fulfilment of  Data Bootcamp Fall 2018. We certify that the NYU Stern Honor Code applies to this project. In particular, we have: Clearly acknowledged the work and efforts of others when submitting written work as our own. The incorporation of the work of others–including but not limited to their ideas, data, creative expression, and direct quotations (which should be designated with quotation marks), or paraphrasing thereof– has been fully and appropriately referenced using notations both in the text and the bibliography. And we understand that: Submitting the same or substantially similar work in multiple courses, either in the same semester or in a different semester, without the express approval of all instructors is strictly forbidden. We acknowledge that a failure to abide by NYU Stern Honor Code will result in a failing grade for the project and course.

In the past year, the United States has witnessed hightened tensions sorrounding the US Constitution's 2nd ammendment regarding the right to bare arms. Politicians and civilians equally have become more divided on the topic after several shootings in public spaces and schools have taken the life of innocent Americans. In this project, we dive deep into the gun fatalities in the US to understand who are those that are being most affected. As our main source of data we used Five Thirty Eight's reasearch on gun fatalities from 2012 to 2014. We will also be using a complementary data source from the Washington Post.

We've split up this into three seperate parts: The first part will discuss the most common cause of gun deaths in the US: suicides. We want to dive deep into the demographics of suicides and develop an informed hypothesis about what are the major causes of suicide in the US. The second part analyzes homicides in the United States. We'll also investigate the demographics on homicides in the country to see who is more prone to gun violence in our country. The third part will look specifically into homicides by police officers and will investigate the claim that police officers are more prone to using deadly force against minority races such as blacks and hispanics versus majority race.
